.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiff2ps.1,v 1.12 92/03/31 11:10:07 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFF2PS 1 "March 31, 1992"
.SH NAME
tiff2ps \- convert a
.SM TIFF
image to PostScript\(tm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiff2ps
[
.B \-w
.I width
] [
.B \-h
.I height
] [
.B \-d
.I dirnum
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiff2ps
reads a
.SM TIFF
image and writes Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) on the
standard output that is suitable for
inclusion in PostScript documents.
The
.B \-d
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR dirnum .
This is useful for selecting individual pages
in multi-page (e.g. facsimile) files.
The
.B \-w
and
.B \-h
options set the image dimensions in inches.
These options override any relevant
.SM TIFF
tags in the input file.
.PP
The PostScript generated for
.SM RGB,
palette, and
.SM CMYK
images uses the
.I colorimage
operator.
The PostScript generated for
greyscale and bilevel images
uses the
.I image
operator.
When the
.I colorimage
operator is used, PostScript code to emulate this operator
on older PostScript printers is also generated.
Note that this emulation code can be very slow.
.PP
Color images with associated alpha data are composited over
a white background.
.SH BUGS
Because PostScript does not support the notion of a colormap,
8-bit palette images produce 24-bit PostScript images.
This conversion results in output that is six times
bigger than the original image and which takes a long time
to send to a printer over a serial line.
Matters are even worse for 4-, 2-, and 1-bit palette images.
.PP
.I tiff2ps
should have options to scale the image
for printing on a standard size page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR tiff2bw (1),
.IR tiffsv (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
